On the 18th of November 1978, members of
the Gion Police Force and the US
military ventured into the dense
rainforest of northern Guyana. Their
target was a man named Jim Jones, the
leader of an American cult that had
settled into the region 4 years earlier.
He and his followers had carved out a
massive section in the middle of this
forest and turned it into a complete
compound called Jonestown. The only way
to reach this town was to trek through
dense vegetation, 100 ft tall trees, and
muddy ground. That said, the true danger
of the mission was beyond the trek. Jim
was likely already aware of the mission
to apprehend him, so there would be a
good chance that this group of police
officers and military personnel would be
welcomed by a small militia that was
armed to the gills.
However, when the group reached
Jonestown, it was eerily quiet, and as
they stepped through its entrance, they
came across a scene that could only be
described as hell on earth. The entire
town was empty, except for the central
pavilion, which was surrounded by the
remains of hundreds of people, including
many children.
The total number of victims was
calculated to be around 900, making it
the largest single loss of American
civilian life in a deliberate incident
up until that point in history. And
while this was initially considered an
open andsh shut case of a mass suit, the
reality was far more horrific than
anyone could have imagined. Jim Jones
cult originally started as a church in
the US. But as it became more popular,
it started garnering criticism from the
media and the government for Jim's
support of communism in places like
Soviet Russia. So in 1974, he moved deep
into the rainforest of Guyana to escape
the scrutiny and a large number of his
most loyal followers went with him. He
presented this new location as a
self-sustained paradise where he and his
followers could live a life of peace and
serenity.
>> These are potato chips made from
plantain. And they're more delicious.
They're a combination of a potato chip
and a French fry and radishes. M.
You don't know what you're missing down
here. They make their own mun hamburgers
and the leafy green vegetables. By the
way, we just won first prize from the
national government of Guyana for leafy
green vegetables. Here are the people at
the table eating an afternoon snack. You
see, Pepsi Cola is here for 3 cents.
American money. That sounds appetizing,
doesn't it? I can't get anybody to go
home with me there.
>> When in reality, life in Jonestown was
anything but peaceful. Members were
required to work 12 hours every day for
6 days a week, and there was nothing
they could do to escape these torturous
conditions. Jim had already reached an
agreement with the Gy government to make
getting a visa back to the US almost
impossible. On top of that, the whole
compound was surrounded by a fence with
armed guards patrolling outside to catch
anyone trying to escape. But as time
went on, relatives of the cult members
still living in the US began urging the
government to bring their loved ones
back home. So in November of 1978,
Congressman Leo Ryan and 17 other
people, including members of the media,
visited Guyana to investigate Jonestown.
They reached the headquarters on
November 17th and began their operation,
looking around, talking to people,
anything they could do to learn the
truth about Jonestown. Surprisingly,
things looked just as carefree and
jovial as Jim had portrayed in his
promotional videos. Of course, it later
came out that Jim had actually run
rehearsals on how to convince Leo's
delegation that everyone was happy and
in good spirits. But even then, the
truth didn't stay hidden for long. That
night, two members, Vernon and Monica,
secretly passed an ominous note to the
delegation that read, "Dear Congressmen,
Vernon Gazny and Monica Bagby, please
help us get out of Jonestown." This
prompted the delegation members to ask
others if they wanted to leave as well.
And nine more cult members found the
courage to come forward. This even
included one of Jim's closest men,
shedding light on just how bad the
living conditions in Jonestown truly
were. The next morning, Leo's group took
these members to the nearby Kituma
airirstrip so they could return home.
But just as they were boarding the
planes, Jim's henchmen pulled up in
front of the plane in a truck and opened
fire, killing four people, including
Congressman Leo Ryan. Back at Jonestown,
Jim gathered the members at the central
pavilion and told them to drink the
poisoned grape flavor aid. In his words,
this was the only way to escape the
American government.
>> We can't go back. They won't leave us
alone. They're now going back to tell
more lies, which means more congressmen,
and there's no way, no way we can
survive. In the end, while many
brainwashed cult members agreed with Jim
and drank the poison juice willingly,
others, including children, were forced
to drink it at gunpoint. Some were even
injected with cyanide or shot outright.
The American military was on its way to
Jonestown as soon as it became aware of
the shooting at the airirstrip.
Unfortunately, by the time they got
there, it was already too late. The
sheer scale of the tragedy, combined
with the fact that many of the victims
were forced into it, turned it into the
most haunting site those soldiers or
anyone has ever found in a forest.
On April 4th, 1922, a mechanic named
Albert Hoffner visited a Gruber house
located near a forest in Widehoff in
Germany. The family had hired him to
repair their barn motor a few weeks
earlier. However, when he reached the
house, he noticed something strange. The
cows and dogs were making a lot of noise
in the barn. Yet, the rest of the house
was completely silent. He tried knocking
and calling out to them many times, but
no one came to the door either. Assuming
they weren't home, he waited in their
yard for an hour before deciding to
leave. But just as he was about to
leave, he noticed that the door to the
motorroom was unlocked. So he decided to
repair the motor anyway and come back
for his payment later. After finishing
the repairs, Albert wanted to inform one
of their neighbors about his work. But
the home was completely isolated with
the closest neighbor over half a
kilometer away. With no other option, he
made the detour and knocked on the door
of Loren Schlittenbower, Gruber's
closest neighbor. Loren, however, found
the empty house extremely suspicious. He
knew the family well and figured they
would have informed him if they were
going somewhere. So later that evening,
he joined two of his neighbors to go
check things out for themselves. Sure
enough, the house was just as empty as
Albert had reported. As they were
looking around the house, one of them
noticed that the door to the machine
area was also unlocked. The three
entered through this door.
After examining the machine room, they
decided to check further by breaking
open the barn door connected to it.
However, the horrific sight they
witnessed on the other side of the door
likely stayed with them for the rest of
their lives. At first, things looked
normal, but then one of them spotted
what looked like a human foot sticking
out from a pile of hay. This turned out
to be the remains of 72-year-old
Cazilia, the head lady of the house. As
they got closer, they also noticed three
more bodies scattered throughout the
barn. These included the head of the
house, 63-year-old Andreas Gruber, and
his two daughters.
Things became even more gruesome. They
also discovered the remains of Andreas's
2-year-old grandson, Ysef, in his
stroller with his skull crushed in, as
well as the family maid, Maria, in a
different room. Someone had murdered the
entire Gruber family and left without
getting caught. Later, investigation
concluded that the family was killed 4
days earlier on the 1st of April. But
what made this already horrific crime
even more chilling was that it was
carried out over the course of several
hours. The killer likely spent a long
time in the house afterward, trying to
hide the evidence by covering it with
hay and blankets. The room with the maid
even had clothes stuffed into its window
sill to make spotting her from outside
more difficult. Most assumed this was
the result of a robbery gone wrong.
However, most valuables were still in
the house, which complicated the case
even further. Neighbors reported that
the family had seen men staring at their
home from the woods on multiple
occasions. their previous maid had quit
months earlier, claiming the house was
haunted and someone had broken into the
machine room a few days before the
killings. None of these clues helped
investigators find the killer. And since
the home was so isolated, there were no
witnesses. To this day, the Gruber
family murders remain an unsolved
mystery.
In July 2015, Mark Andre was marking
trees in the dense Arcada community
forest in California. He worked as
Arcada's environmental services director
and was doing a routine inspection when
something strange caught his attention.
Just off the hiking trail, Mark noticed
an unusual structure poking through the
vegetation. He got closer and was
shocked to find a cabin in the middle of
the forest. What made this discovery
even more strange was the fact that this
wasn't a hastily built shack. It was
surprisingly well constructed with a
stable cinder block base, plastic sheets
to keep things dry, and even a lock on
the front door. Someone had clearly
spent weeks, if not months, building it
from scratch. Mark immediately notified
the park rangers, who spent the next few
days, staking out near the cabin to see
if the owner would return. They
eventually broke the lock to see if they
could find any clues about who lived
there. But this only left them even more
confused. Inside, they found everything
someone would need to survive in the
middle of nowhere. Fresh water, a wood
burning stove, canned food, and even
books stacked neatly on the shelves. It
looked more like a cramped studio
apartment than a makeshift cabin. Yet,
none of the items inside provided any
clues about the owner's identity. Since
no one had returned after several days,
rangers assumed the cabin had been
abandoned. They followed proper
procedures and left an eviction notice
on the front door before leaving the
site. But when Mark and the Rangers
returned to demolish it, they made an
even more shocking discovery. The entire
cabin had vanished without a trace.
There wasn't even a single nail left
behind. In its place was the
international symbol of squatter drawn
in charcoal. This raised more questions
than it answered. How did the cabin's
residents always manage to be away
whenever the rangers visited? And more
importantly, why were they hiding in the
middle of a forest in the first place?
It's possible this person was a criminal
on the run, but even after a decade, no
one knows the real answer.
In May 2016, a hiker was walking through
a forest in Harland, Kentucky. About
halfway through his trip, he discovered
a trail camera lying on the forest
floor. Trail cameras are typically used
to capture wildlife footage. But this
particular camera didn't have any
storage or a battery. Assuming it was
abandoned, the hiker took it home and
gave it to a friend to see if it could
be fixed. What neither of them knew was
that this camera was actually a trap set
by a madman. As soon as the friend
connected a battery to it, the camera
exploded. The blast was powerful enough
to blow off some of the man's fingers
and injure his stomach. The device had
been rigged to explode the moment it
received power. After being alerted to
the incident, authorities swept the area
where the camera was found and
discovered another trail camera with
similar modifications, but it didn't
contain anything that could help
identify who placed it there. While
canvasing local neighborhoods,
investigators finally caught a break.
Two different people reported hearing an
explosion at a neighbor's house several
months earlier. That neighbor was
39-year-old Mark Saf. When authorities
searched his home, they found buckets
filled with bomb-making materials and a
handwritten note that read, "Broken
camera for a broken soul." He was
arrested on June 21st, 2016. But before
he could be officially charged, the
police wanted his help locating other
explosive cameras he may have left
behind. During this trip, SAF tried to
grab an officer's gun, likely in an
attempt to escape. In the struggle, he
was accidentally shot and killed. Before
his death, he helped the police find 12
more rigged cameras hidden throughout
the Harland Forest, but it's entirely
possible that many others are still out
there, waiting to be discovered by an
unsuspecting passerby.
On November 10th, 1985, a hunter was
walking through the dense woods of
Bearbrook State Park in Allenstown, New
Hampshire. He'd used this route many
times before, but this time, something
unusual caught his eye. Hidden beneath a
pile of leaves and debris was a rusted
55gallon metal drum. Curious, he walked
closer only to discover the chopped up
remains of two people inside.
Authorities were alerted immediately.
Later investigation revealed the victims
were a young woman and a young girl.
Both had been killed by blunt force
trauma to the head, then cut into pieces
and stuffed into the barrel. Sadly, both
bodies were too disfigured to identify.
With no leads, the case went cold until
the year 2000. A state trooper was
revisiting the area where the first
barrel was found, hoping to uncover new
clues. But instead, he came across
something far worse. Another identical
55gallon barrel just 150 yards from the
first one. Inside were the remains of
two more young girls, both between 1 and
4 years old. They had been killed in the
same brutal fashion. blunt force trauma,
then dismembered. The discovery
confirmed that all four murders were the
work of the same person. But even with
this new evidence, the case remained
unsolved for another 14 years. Finally,
thanks to advanced DNA testing, three of
the four victims were identified. The
adult woman was 24year-old Marla
Elizabeth Honeyurch. The two children
were her daughters, 7-year-old Mary
Vaughn and 11-month-old Sarah McWaters.
This identification helped narrow the
investigation, but didn't immediately
reveal the killer. Eventually, DNA tests
pointed to a man named Terry Peter
Rasmusen.
>> Enter not the doctor. And both stories
have their footings.
>> Maybe she hurt herself and and you're
concerned about that getting out that
she herself.
>> No. Is that true?
>> If you're if you're uh if you're
thinking is she suicidal? Unbeknownst to
the authorities at the time, Rasmusen
had already been arrested for the 2002
murder of his wife. He was sentenced to
life in prison and died in 2010, long
before anyone linked him to the
Bearbrook murders. Although the case is
technically solved, many questions
remain unanswered. And with the killer
no longer alive to face justice, the
story remains one of the most disturbing
and unresolved tragedies ever uncovered
in a forest.
A man walking his dog near Ashford,
Washington, made one of the most
disturbing discoveries in Red Elm Woods,
an isolated forest known for its lack of
maintained trails and almost no cell
service. He had taken a rarely used fire
road about 2 mi in when his dog began
growling at a thick patch of underbrush
just off the path. There was a strong
rotten smell in the air, bad enough that
he initially assumed it was a dead
animal. When he went to investigate, he
found a shallow pit roughly 5 ft across.
Inside were six large bundles wrapped in
black plastic sheeting and duct tape.
Heavy river stones had been placed on
top of each one as if to weigh them
down. One of the bundles had a tear near
a corner, and through it he saw a human
hand. He backed out immediately and
contacted the local sheriff's office. A
forensic team was sent in the next day.
What they uncovered was grim. six
wrapped packages, each containing
partial human remains. In total,
investigators identified parts from at
least four different victims, all
dismembered and sealed in layers of
plastic and tape. The victims had been
killed in different ways. One had severe
head trauma, another had signs of
strangulation, and one had been
partially burned. The remains were in
various stages of decomposition.
According to the medical examiner, the
bodies hadn't all been dumped at once.
The site had been used over a span of
several years with new remains added
slowly over time. One victim was linked
to a missing person's report from 2003.
Another had never been reported missing
at all and still remains unidentified.
The location was less than 30 ft from a
trail, one that occasional hikers still
used. Despite the remains being found in
a methodical burial site, no suspects
were ever arrested, no fingerprints, no
DNA matches beyond the victims, and no
witnesses.
To this day, the identity of whoever
created the pit is still unknown.
In October of 1991, a man walking along
a rural lane near Boli, England, made a
discovery that still haunts
investigators.
Hidden in the underground, wrapped
tightly in a piece of carpet, was a
human torso. The head and both hands
were missing. The arms had been cut
cleanly just below the elbows, likely to
remove identifying tattoos. Forensic
analysis determined the victim was a
physically fit man between 30 and 45
years old, likely of southern German
origin. There was no match to any
missing person's report in the UK. The
precision of the dismemberment suggested
that the killer knew exactly what they
were doing. Whoever they were, they had
taken deliberate steps to erase this
man's identity. Investigators launched
Operation A23, a massive task force
involving 60 officers and more than
150,000 euro in resources. They even
searched a nearby abandoned rental house
which was once occupied by a man using a
German alias. Inside was a strange clue,
an adult magazine with numbers written
inside, but no direct link to the murder
was ever found. Over three decades
later, the victim remains unidentified
and the killer never caught. All that's
left of the case is a name given by the
media, the Bony torso.